# What we talk about when we talk about security

Caislean helps set up in few simple steps one or more secure servers. This means
that the cookbook includes a whole range of **best practices for basic
security**, with tweakings regarding TLS cipher lists, web server security
options, files and directories permissions and ownership, etc.

Nevertheless, depending on your and your users' threat model, it is worth
pointing out that basic server security is **just one part** of the setup that
is needed for attaining a suitable security level for yourself and your users.

Therefore, we strongly recommend you to **inform your users** on how to improve
their security through end-to-end encryption (for example advising them to read
manuals on
[GPG](https://learn.equalit.ie/wiki/To_send_an_email_that_no_one_but_me_and_the_recipient_can_read)
and
[OTR](https://learn.equalit.ie/wiki/I_want_to_know_about_options_for_private_chat)),
as well as to warn them about the limits of personal VPNs (you can find a good
explanation [here](https://help.riseup.net/it/vpn), in the section "Limitations
to using RiseupVPN").

You should also understand that having implemented basic security settings in
the server you run does not protect you from every possible risk. Depending on
the **political context** where you and your community live and where your
activities take place, as well as where your server is located, your server
might be seized or intercepted by authorities and there might be legal
proceedings against you, your organization and/or your users.

Before you set up your server and start offering services to your community, it
is therefore strongly advisable to **consider the risks** that you may be facing
and to make decisions accordingly as regards the location of your servers, the
services you want to offer (which may be for instance illegal in some states),
the activities you want to take place on your server and also your legal status
(in some countries you could be considered a provider and further rules could
apply to your case).

Finally consider that a strong user community, if well informed, may be one of
your main strengths in many critical situations.
